.\"
.\" Into the Dungeon++
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Teon Banek
.\"
.\" This file is part of Into the Dungeon++.
.\" Into the Dungeon++ is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Into the Dungeon++ is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Into the Dungeon++. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
.\"
.\" Author(s): Teon Banek <intothedungeon@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH INTO-THE-DUNGEON++ 6 2014-10-24 "Linux" "Into the Dungeon++ manual"
.SH NAME
into-the-dungeon++, itd++ \- simple graphical roguelike
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B itd++
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Into the Dungeon++
is a simple graphical roguelike.
.PP
The game features randomly created dungeons, monsters, items and scrolls.
.br
Can You survive Your dungeon crawling adventure and defeat the Evil that
lurks on the 20th Dungeon Level?
.PP
Beware of the
.B cursed
items (especially potions)!
You cannot unequip cursed items, and cursed potions can be lethal!
.PP
The player is afflicted with the corruption, represented by a candle.
It allows You to see loot through the Fog of War but staying too long on
a dungeon level could take the toll of Your life.
.SS Controls
Controls for playing the game:
.PP
.B Movement
\-
.I arrow keys
.PP
.B Attacking
\- move toward the enemy
.PP
.B Save Game
\-
.I SHIFT-s
.PP
.B Quit
(without saving) \-
.I CTRL-q
.PP
.B Load Game
\-
.I SHIFT-l
.PP
.B Skip Turn
\-
.I space
.PP
.B Pickup Item
(when standing over it) \-
.I return
.PP
.B Open/Close Spellbook
\-
.I r
.PP
.B Use Spell
\-
.I number
associated with the spell in the spellbook
.PP
.B Inventory
\-
.I i
.PP
.B Select Item
\-
.I number
associated with item in inventory
.PP
.B Use/Equip
\-
.I u
when item is selected
.PP
.B Drop
\-
.I d
when item is selected
.PP
.B Descend
\-
.I d
on stairs
.PP
.B Next Page
\-
.I n
when open Inventory or SpellBook
.SS Heads Up Display (HUD)
.TP
.B Minimap
upper left corner
.I white
\- floor
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ITD_DATA_DIR
If
.RB $ ITD_DATA_DIR
is set, its value is used as the directory where the game data is
searched first.
.TP
.B ITD_DATA_HOME
is
.RB $ ITD_DATA_HOME
is set, its value is used as the directory where the game stores and reads
save files.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/bin/itd++
game launcher.
.TP
.I /usr/share/into-the-dungeon++
directory with game data files.
.TP
.I $XDG_DATA_HOME/into-the-dungeon++
directory with save files.
